Didn't feel intimidated by him in any way.
He was just a guy who wanted Aggies to feel good about themselves.
J.E.
Lupo.
Oh yeah, old Army Lou.
I can still remember when we played in the Cotton Bowl in 67.
I had just finished school and, matter of fact, I was in the Army in San Antonio at that time.
And I never will forget
I walked in the Cotton Bowl in the end zone, and I started near the bottom of the stands and started walking up, and who should loom right up in front of me but old Army Lou, and all he would say was, you good Aggies.
And he was just trying to make sure everybody had a good time, but Lou helped bail a lot of Aggies out of jail.
He provided a lot of dollars and axes and other materials for the bonfire.
He forgot an awful lot of bills that people didn't pay.
Mary Wilson, who worked for me for many years here at the magazine, used to work for Lou when she was a student, and I think even before she became a college student.
She talked about a drawer that was just full of tickets that were unpaid for material that people had bought over there.
And they would always get after Lou and say, Lou, you've got to go try to collect this money.
Oh, they'll come around when they've got it.
Just leave it alone.
And there was kind of a joke back then that Lou's family or his brothers used Lou's store for a tax write-off because he didn't make a lot of money, but I don't know if that was true or not.
I think he was probably pretty successful even when he didn't get everything paid for.
Did you ever know of Lou attempting, Old Army Lou attempting to do anything
that was unethical.
I never heard anything except generosity.
No, he was generous to a fault and if Lou did anything, it was that maybe some people took his actions as encouraging kids to drink and do stuff they shouldn't do, but I don't think that was it at all.
I think he just knew when somebody got in trouble they needed help and he wanted to try to help them.
Earl Rudder, what was he like in your student days?
Of course, I didn't have a whole lot of personal contact with him, but he was kind of a looming image.
I mean, he was a big person in more ways than physical stature, and he spoke at our orientations.
He was the guy who stood up there and told us, look at the man in front of you and the man behind you and the one on your left and the one on your right because they're not going to be here when you finish school.
And there was a lot more truth than that than we wanted to believe at that time.
But he was a powerful presence and I consider him, for his time and for what needed to be done then, one of the best presidents this school's ever had.
I put him in a league with Lawrence Sullivan Ross and I would like to include in groups like that people like Jack Williams.
They were here at a time when they needed to be.
Ross made sure that A&M didn't get turned into an insane asylum or shipped over to Austin and turned it into, you know, a school that could be reckoned with.
Rudder came along at a time when both non-compulsory corps and women were such an important issue and without his
war record background and what he had done in the state land office to gain people's respect there.
I just don't think anybody else could have done what he did.
He caused things to happen.
The story John Lindsay tells about getting approval of the former students for the board to approve limited coeducation is a jewel and it shows the genius of the man because
He knew that he couldn't get that by the board without some sort of endorsement, and he knew that John Lindsay was a person that would help him get what he needed.
A lot of people didn't talk to John Lindsay for a long time after that, but I think most of them came to realize later that what was going on and what happened was good.
But Rutter was a very strong presence, and I think
people looked up to him a great deal and felt like he was somebody that they wanted to be like, or at least wanted to try to achieve the sort of things that he achieved.
And of course I have memories too of the clashes that Tommy DeFrank had with him, which mostly happened after I left.
But he and, I think he and DeFrank were on a collision course before I finished school.
I remember Tommy, who, you know, later became a White House correspondent for Newsweek, Tommy liked to write stories that were critical of the civilian students.
And the civilian students tended to write letters back to the battalion that were critical of Tommy.
And then he'd write another letter.
And that went on for a long time.
It wasn't any surprise to me when I heard a year or two later after I left school that Tommy had been fired by Earl Rudder because Tommy did what Tommy does.
And Earl wasn't gonna pay attention to it.
I guess I shouldn't call him Earl.
I never felt like calling him anything but General.
Do you remember what you students called him?
He was just General Rudder.
He was General Rudder.
That's what I thought, more than President Rudder.
I remember when working as a waiter over in the catering office at the MSC, we had a big banquet one night and, let's see, what was his name?
Ben Daniel, I think, wasn't he the brother of Price Daniel who was the governor of Guam?
He was here at a dinner that night and he left these people that were talking out in the hall at the dinner to come talk to us
over standing around waiting for our time to serve tables.
And I remember earlier coming over to him after a little while and saying, you know, Governor, we need to come on in here.
And he didn't think too much of him spending all the time with us over there.
He didn't think that was where he ought to be.
Let's see, I'm trying to think of other campus.
Were there any, in your student days, do you remember any impressive visitors from off campus who came here?
Well, Fred Waring and the Pennsylvanians were here for a show and I remember Ray Anthony and his bookends, the gorgeous brunette and blonde that he had with him, were here.
Oh, who were some of those other shows?
Gosh, I went to as many of those as I could find time or money for.
Gosh, I'm drawing a blank right now.
Popular student indulgences.
What were students smoking then?
Well, they certainly weren't smoking pot.
Most of them were smoking Marlboros, I think.
or some other popular brand.
If you're really tough, you smoke Lucky Strikes without a filter.
Did y'all even know the word marijuana or cocaine?
No.
No, it didn't mean anything to us at that time.
And people were drinking beer, whiskey, and wine?
Pretty much beer for the most part, and occasionally whiskey.
And if it was a mixed drink, it was mixing something into a Coca-Cola or a?
Yeah, very, very plain type drinks.
You didn't have any whiskey sours or fancy drinks to go.
Was Uncle Ed's hard liquor still here?
It was.
I think I went in there one time.
Like I said, I didn't get off campus a whole lot when I was a freshman and sophomore.
But when I was finishing up between 64 and 66, places like Franklin's and the Country Kitchen were real popular.
And we went out there.
I remember on the radio show, Bob used to love to advertise for Franklin's.
And he'd say, you know, I bet these guys would like to go out to Franklin's and get a cup of coffee.
Of course, beer drinking was what went along mostly at Franklin's and good stakes.
Describe a court trip in your undergraduate days.
Okay, my freshman year we went up to TCU and they had banners critical of A&M hanging from their dorms
And there was a sophomore in my outfit whose last name happened to be Cooper also, Johnny Cooper, and he decided he was going to literally scale the side of one of those dormitories and take one of those banners home with him.
Well, he got up there to the second floor level and he pulled the banner down and he got about halfway back down when I guess his grip slipped and he dropped and he broke his ankle or his leg some way.
and uh... he was on crutches the next day to watch us in the march in but uh... we all scrambled into the cars dragging him behind us and took off and one of our sophomores had a uh... garage that they had gone and either borrowed or picked up uh... bunch of used beds and stuff and put in this garage and he put a whole bunch of us up there like eight or ten of us one night
And he didn't tell us about the train.
At 3 o'clock the next morning, a train came through, and that train track was four feet behind the garage.
And we all come running out of there like the whole place was going to fall down.
And he was just standing out there waiting for us and laughing because he knew what was going to happen.
How did y'all get to Fort Worth?
Just hitched rides.
Some people hitchhiked.
Most of us just caught rides with whoever had a car.
They had sign-up sheets for the outfit or just about anywhere else around that you wanted to go, you could find somebody who was going that way.
And usually if you were hitchhiking, you got picked up by another carload of Aggies that was already heading out and had room for one more.
And as you marched, how did the people in Fort Worth respond?
Oh, it was a fun thing because everybody, you know, really received us well.
It was kind of like, hey, you know,
all these people that have been critical about A&M, where are they?
Because obviously the only ones that showed up for a parade were the people who liked A&M, and of course I'm sure a lot of them were families or former Ags, and they just made us feel good.
Did you and your buddies have dates with Tessies?
I'm trying to remember it.
I don't remember if I had a date that year at the game.
The next year I had a date over at the Cotton Bowl with a girl from SMU.
And that was a fun deal because I had failed to be able to get her a ticket to get in the right section for the Corps.
And I don't remember where the Cotton Bowl was built, but at one end there's kind of a sloping grass area that comes down to another walkway.
it was a little bit soft but she took off her high heels and we climbed up to get to the area we needed to get into and of course getting into the section was easy because all you had to do was go in there and get somebody else's date ticket and then come out and get your date and bring her in so we probably had about four times as many people in that section as we're supposed to be there.
And then on Saturday nights on court trips what did y'all do?
Well there was usually a
party or a dance going on.
Sometimes we'd go to that or sometimes just our outfit would have a get together.
We had a deal where, matter of fact, I think one of those pictures in there is me with a date from
TSCW that we had at a party and I don't even remember where that was.
It was out at somebody's place out in the country and we just had a real good time.
Now when the Tessies used to come down here by bus or train in large numbers I've heard stories about the outfit having a pot where everybody put some money in and the guy that got stuck with the worst date
Now that really preceded our time.
We didn't do a whole lot of that back then.
What we did do was we wrote to our post office box mates and shared letters, and I even did that with a girl.
Matter of fact, I've still got some letters in there I was looking at today from a girl in Austin that I wrote over at Scottish Rite Dorm, I think, over there.
I just wrote to the box number at Scottish Rite Dorm.
We corresponded and had a date or two,
She, you know, I was too far away for that to last very long.
My brain tells me that would have been the equivalent of email, internet, dating now.
Let's see.
Describe a typical home football game day.
What time did you all get up?
What time did things happen?
Gosh, you're asking me to really remember a lot of things.
Well, believe it or not, there were some Saturdays of football season that we actually got up and had a drill at about 7.30 or 8 in the morning.
There was even a period while I was here when we had classes on Saturday morning.
And I'm at a loss to try to tell you exactly what the sequence of events went on.
At a certain point in time, we had to be sure we were at the dorm and in uniform for the march in and get ready to go over there.
And then, of course, after the game, it was kind of everybody on their own.
main job was to grab the yellow eaters and go to the fish pond and have yellow practice in front of the Y. All right, now in your day, was there always a march in?
There was always a march in, yeah.
And if you had a date for the home game, when did you separate from her?
Well, usually she took her ticket and went on into the stands.
And you just had to try to pick a spot or see if you could designate an area where she was supposed to be.
And oftentimes there were other students that, you know, may not be in the core or something and they'd often help you make contacts.
And so they were usually waiting in the stands for you after you got finished marching.
Now, do you remember for you or any of your acquaintances any goofily awkward situations at football games with a date or something or other?
well i remember going to texas tech one year and we had dates with tech girls and we quickly found out after a m started scoring they had i think we scored about thirty points that day that these girls all had made a pact that uh... they dated tech boys and that they weren't going to kiss their aggie dates and by the time the evening was over i don't know about the rest of my date was feeling pretty embarrassed about the whole thing and you know that
She felt like I wasn't having that great a time and I probably wasn't.
But what I remember the most after that was we left the stadium and we walked over.
I had to meet a friend of mine at a dorm over there that I was going to stay with.
And we walked through the student center.
And when we walked in that student center, I'm sure I was probably the only person in an A&M cadet uniform in that entire place.
and it just got deathly silence.
And we walked with everybody just staring at us right down the middle of that hall and to the other end and there wasn't, I mean, nothing but whispering going on around the sides.
And I got, I was rather unhappy.
My date did apologize to me and I think I did get one goodbye kiss before she left, but I was so disheartened and all.
probably had a little too much to drink, and I woke up feeling sicker than a dog the next day.
You know, I can remember that like it was yesterday.
That's the awfulest feeling I ever had.
Let's see, talking about games, of all of the games you attended as an undergraduate, what were the high points that you, just enjoyment?
Whether or not we won the game, that's not the question.
What were some fun memories?
Gosh, even trying to remember the games is kinda hard back then because they usually turned out pretty disappointing.
I think the high point of a lot of them was when we got to leave and go back to the dorm or go party or whatever we were gonna do.
I'm trying to remember if there were any really memorable games in that year.
You remember that
They brought Jim Myers in, and they used to say that Jim Myers brought the three yards in a cloud of dust offense, and then they said Hank Fullberg came and did away with the three yards.
We were kissing dates on first downs, and it was even, I think we even did it one game on possessions whenever we could get our hands on the ball.
Or what about in basketball?
Basketball was a fun time.
I remember, I tell you,
watching carol broussard play basketball was a thing of beauty that that guy had a jump shot from outside of the free throw circle that that was just unbelievable and i mean it would just every time it would just go right in the basket and uh... benny lennox i don't think too many people ever see a set shot artist like that in their life i mean he could sit there and just drop them through that net every time he let go of the ball and of course he set the record against wyoming uh...
I don't remember which year it was, but one of those years he had 53 points by himself.
And John Beasley was graceful too.
Carol Broussard, I may be embellishing this, but he would go up for his shot
And to get away from the defender, he was tall already and he would jump up and he would arch back away from the basket.
And I swear sometimes he was almost nearly horizontal to the ground when he'd let go of that ball.
And there was no way the guy could be within eight feet of him because he was so high and he was so far away moving back away from him.
There's no way he could block that shot.
And it seemed that the A&M head coach always had a smile, the basketball coach then.
Shelby grinned a lot.
Oh, he did, yeah.
Shelby grinned like a Cheshire cat.
It was a pleasant... He'd probably say like a coon.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Final, let's see, you were not in the Corps your senior year.
No, after two years, I had, my grades were starting to drop, and that fifth semester I was here would have been my junior year.
I lived over in Leggett Hall, and...
That was the year of the hurricane and all, and I never did catch up with my grades.
That was kind of a fun year for me.
I may have had too much fun, but I felt like I had a whole lot more freedom not being in the Corps.
I'm trying to remember some of the things we did and all.
We had a very tight-knit group over there in Leggett Hall.
Most of us were from the Corps and I think we sort of felt like it carried over.
We were sort of a unit and treated each other that way.
Did you civilian students almost without saying so feel you had something to prove?
Oh yeah.
I think we did and I think we made probably even a better effort to make sure that we were friendly and that we spoke to people on campus and particularly people in the Corps.
and that we tried to remember what it was like for us when we were in there.
Oh, I know an important set of questions.
How diverse was the student body then in terms of the way we now talk about ethnic diversity?
Well, I'll be honest with you.
I'm trying to remember when even our first black football players
came in.
That was probably a little after that time.
But we had Hispanics.
We had Hispanics.
I lived one that year in Leggett.
I had a room.
We had three roommates because we were crowded at that time.
And I had a roommate from Mexico City.
And we got along pretty good except when he and his buddies would gather in my room and talk Spanish.
And I finally put a stop to that and told them that, you know, if they wanted to
to visit in their own language.
I didn't object to it, but I didn't really want them doing it in front of me because I didn't feel comfortable because I didn't know what they were saying.
And they respected that after that.
All right.
How, in general, how were Hispanics, U.S.
Hispanics treated?
Well, I mean, we had guys in our outfit that were Hispanic.
I mean, my roommate my sophomore year was Carlos Vela.
who's a dentist down in Laredo now.
And Carlos and I got along pretty good.
I think the only thing he didn't like was I wasn't as study-oriented as he was.
But as far as the ethnicity or anything, there was no conflict.
What about Jewish kids?
We had some Jewish kids in our outfit that were freshmen with us.
Except for the fact that sometimes they
seemed to have a little trouble with marching and stuff like that.
I mean, again, no problem.
No problem because they were Jewish.
It was problems because of other personality quirks.
Catholic?
I'm sure we had them then.
I don't know.
I couldn't point to any and say they were, but I'm sure there were.
What I'm assuming is that the key thing was, were they Aggies or were they not?
That was it.
We were all Aggies.
Of course they told us that they cut our hair off and all when we were freshmen to eliminate all of these signs that we were something different than somebody else and we wore the same clothes.
It was all done with that purpose in mind and I think for the largest part it was successful.
I think any conflicts came strictly from actions between people and the way
they generally reacted toward one another, and it had nothing to do with any outside or other influences.
Now, in earlier years, there were some nicknames for people by nationalities, national background.
Were any of those still around?
Well, if you mean camel jocks, people from the Middle East, I guess, countries and places like that,
We had terms like that.
I don't think people very often spoke in those terms in front of them.
It was just kind of something they used to refer to them.
And I don't think in most cases anybody meant a whole lot by it.
It's just that there was one other way of recognizing that they were different a little bit.
I have always assumed that it was kind of like the nicknames for the faculty.
It was a kind of a backhanded term of endearment, acceptance.
Again, I think it was more to define a difference that was perceived there than it was to try to really do anything else.
I don't know if it was complimentary or not, but it was certainly not generally intended to be uncomplimentary.
And it's just like the terminology they had in World War II for the Japanese and for the other ethnic origins then.
People fall into these habits, and obviously we've all learned they're bad habits, but back then you didn't think about them in terms of I was trying to run somebody down.
It was just something you said or did, and it was thoughtless, but it wasn't intended maliciously.
By today's definitions, what generally would you have said was the typical student attitude of liberal conservative
Well, we were getting some students then probably that had a little more liberal leanings.
I think the Goldwater-Johnson election in 64 kind of spelled that out because the,
Students were starting to put up a lot of Goldwater banners in their dorms, and the order came down from Earl Rutter's office, who was of course a close friend of Lyndon Johnson's, that there would be no political signs displayed in state buildings, and that included dormitories.
Obviously, everybody kind of knew where that came from.
And I have photographs in my attic of probably one of the few overtly political marches that ever took place at A&M back then.
And it was a protest against Rutter's policy about no dorm signs on the campaign.
And they hung placards around Sully's neck and climbed up on him and made speeches and all.
And there's probably...
two dozen people at the most gathered around there and probably half of those were curious about what was going on.
But I've got color pictures of all that and of course it was led by a good friend of mine, Ron Smith who was a Yankee from New York and he was a journalism student but he
Ron thought different than all of us did anyway, but in this particular case, I think he was probably right, but they didn't make much headway with Rudder.
And as you think of the student body in that era, were they a kind of a sample of this part of Texas, the eastern two-thirds of the state in terms of urban, rural?
Well, there were quite a few from central and west Texas as well as the eastern area.
And we had a fair number of students from other states here then.
Like I said, a number of them that I took journalism with were from out of state.
One besides New York, there was one from, I think, New Jersey and several other places.
But you all weren't all country boys.
No, I think the majority of people probably came from a scattering of not country towns or little places, but small towns.
Texas City, I don't remember how many it had back then.
Texas City probably was 25, 30,000 people or something then.
I think there was not the concentration of people from Houston and Austin areas.
If they had more people, it was probably pretty much in ratio to people from outside of the big cities.
Silver Taps, what was it like for a youngster the first few times?
Pretty impressive.
kind of made you gain an understanding that there was a little bit more to this place than you'd had a chance to see before.
I think that was our first real exposure to what really ties Aggies together.
The fun and the football games and all of that stuff is fine, but until you are at a Silver Taps or until you
sit at a muster and hear what goes on at their, it's just like they say, you know, it's the Aggie spirit, you can't define it for somebody else, and they can't understand it unless they've been there.
And I think the smartest thing we ever did
was to get some people to look at us who had a chance to spread the word.
There was a fellow who wrote sports for the Corpus Christi newspaper back when I first started here with the magazine.
And he happened to be here on a muster weekend for spring training or something and he happened to attend the muster.
And he wrote one of the more meaningful columns which we reprinted in the magazine.
Back then we had musters in front of the system, what used to be the system building and is now the Williams Administration Building.
We had musters in front of the Memorial Student Center.
Those were the only times when anybody walked on the MSC grass and the only time when freshmen and other people could walk on the grass like out at the Administration Building.
I think we had a muster in G. Raleigh White back then as well.
I'd have to go back to the list to see exactly where, but I attended musters